<span class="displaytext">recently released pentagon records show that more than 43,000 u.s. troops who are medically unfit for combat have been sent to iraq or afghanistan since 2003. sending soldiers into combat when they are medically unfit is more than a sign of strain on our armed forces – it is a sign of genuine disrespect to our soldiers who risk their lives to protect us. after more than five years, the iraq war has imposed a grave toll on our military. the war has claimed the lives of more than 4,000 brave young men and women. tens of thousands more have been wounded, many with invisible injuries like traumatic brain injury and post traumatic stress disorder. <p>we need a president who will relieve the strain being placed on our troops and place the care of our men and women in uniform as a top priority. as president, i will start by bringing this war to a swift and responsible conclusion. i will begin to bring our troops home within 60 days of taking office. i will not send a single soldier into combat who is not medically fit. i will ensure that, for every month our soldiers spend in the field, they will be guaranteed one month here at home. i will end the policy of stop-loss, which forces soldiers to remain in the military beyond their contractual time, and which has affected more than 70,000 enlisted soldiers so far. </p><p>i will ensure that all veterans have access to quality, affordable health care and mental health care and that we fully fund the va so that it has the capacity to avoid backlogs and to handle greater enrollments. i will work to provide fast-track training for new claims specialists and expand the benefits delivery at discharge program to smooth the transition from service to discharge. and i will enact the gi bill of rights for the 21st century to offer servicemembers, veterans, and their families expanded education, housing, and entrepreneurial benefits. our servicemembers and veterans deserve a president who will support them both on the battlefield and when they return home. i will be that president.</p></span>



