<span class="displaytext"><i>the following statement was delivered by senator (candidate last) at a press availability in burbank, california this afternoon:</i> <p>"i want to start by talking about a very troubling development that has come to light in regard to airline safety and regulation. this week we are learning a number of very problematic things about airline safety and about the federal aviation administration's approach to policing the airline industry. southwest airlines has a lot to answer for. we now have a report that southwest flew dozens of planes thousands of times even though it knew full well that they had not been inspected. when the inspectors showed up and the inspections happened, we learned that some of these planes had potentially dangerous cracks in their skin." </p><p>"the faa has clearly displayed a dangerous and cavalier lack of regard for tough safety enforcement. that is all too familiar with this administration. for years it appears that faa personnel knew that southwest has had safety compliance problems but looked the other way, and then suppressed efforts to bring these problems to light by trying to strong-arm whistleblowers. more broadly, it is becoming very evident that the faa is too cozy with the industry it regulates. we've seen this story before with lax oversight and enforcement of consumer safety for products, food and drugs. how many times and in how many ways will the bush administration policies put the american people's safety at risk? i believe it's the first order of government to ensure the safety of our citizens and when i am president, i am going to take swift steps to protect the flying public." </p><p>"here's what i would do: first, i would appoint an administration and senior management team that is committed to safety as the core mission of the faa. i will direct senior leadership to develop regular reporting channels so that any inspector anywhere in the chain can bring safety problems to light. one of the failures we've seen is that serious issues get trapped in the faa bureaucracy or they are stifled by lower level managers." </p><p>"second, i'll close the revolving door between industry and the faa. senior inspectors should not be leaving their posts one day and joining the airlines they regulate the next day. i know the faa is now talking about a cooling off period, but they need to do more than talk – they need to act and act now to end these cozy relationships. i propose closing the revolving door for cabinet officials; none of them will be allowed to lobby my administration after they leave it and i think we should extend that into other areas of the government, as well." </p><p>"third, i will increase the size of the inspection force which has not kept up with a growing de-regulated industry. i'll make sure that we hire and train enough air traffic controllers to meet our needs. we cannot inspect our way to safety; we need shared responsibility between the faa and the airlines. but inspectors are a vital part of the equation and we have been neglecting our inspection force. congress has been fighting the administration. every year president bush asks for less money for the faa than congress provided the year before. every year, congress tells the president he needs to devote more resources to airline safety. as president, i will provide funding to hire more inspectors, and i'll make sure the faa has the necessary funding to hire and train enough air traffic controllers to meet our needs as members of the public." </p><p>"fourth, i'll reinvigorate the practice of having independent national audit teams double-checking the work done by the inspectors assigned to the airlines. inspectors develop close working relationships with their assigned airlines. in some ways, this is healthy because it improves cooperation. it can become unhealthy when inspectors agree to overlook or wink at safety problems. that's why we need another check and national audit team for the answer. i'll increase the practice of rotating inspectors to promote arms length dealing while still preserving productive relationships." </p><p>"finally, i will work for and sign into law an airline passenger's bill of rights – the airline passenger's bill of rights is long overdue. my home state of new york passed a very sensible law that would require air carriers to take care of passengers stranded for hours on the tarmac. a court struck it down and said the federal government had to act. when i am president, the federal government will act. i have co-sponsored senator boxer's bill that requires all air carriers to provide passengers with adequate food, water and restroom facilities. doesn't seem like a lot to ask. and an option for passengers to deplane after they have been stranded on a plane for three hours or more. this is one example as to why we need a president who is ready on day one to manage the economy."</p></span>



