<span class="displaytext">i enthusiastically welcome the january 11 letter from ukrainian president viktor yushchenko, prime minister yuliya tymoshenko, and verkhovna rada chairman arsenii yatsenyuk to nato secretary general jaap de hoop scheffer, which outlines ukraine's desire for a closer relationship with nato, including a membership action plan. like ukraine's leaders, i hope that important steps toward reaching these goals will be made at the nato summit in bucharest in early april. i applaud the fact that ukraine aspires to anchor itself firmly in the trans-atlantic community through membership in nato and look forward to working with ukrainians and ukrainian-americans to reach that goal. <p>since the earliest days of ukrainian independence, the strategy of the united states has always been to respect and support the ukrainian people's (PARTY NAME) choices in shaping their future. ukraine has been and remains an extremely important partner for the united states, and i take great pride in ukraine's contributions to our common goal of building a europe that is whole and free, peaceful and prosperous. </p><p>when i traveled to ukraine in 1997, i visited a memorial to the victims of communist repression in lviv, and made a commitment to the ukrainian people on behalf of the united states: "in your fight for freedom, your fight for democracy, the american people will stand with you." in recalling that commitment more than ten years later i applaud the immense contributions that ukrainian-americans have made to our country and the indispensable role they have played in broadening and deepening the bonds between the united states and ukraine. i have been greatly impressed by the courage of the ukrainian people as they emerged from decades of soviet oppression and as they have experienced both victories and struggles on the path to democracy and freedom. </p><p>i have worked for more than 15 years to strengthen the u.s.-ukraine relationship and help improve the lives of ukrainians. even before my first visit to kyiv in 1995, i supported health care programs for ukraine, including partnerships between hospitals in the united states and ukraine and airlifts of critical pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies. after hearing pleas from ukrainian women in 1997 to help combat human trafficking, which had become a growing problem in ukraine, i helped initiate an international effort to combat trafficking, including several programs specifically to help ukraine. in 1996, i organized a 10th anniversary white house commemoration of the chornobyl disaster and, as honorary chair of chornobyl challenge '96, committed to continuing support for humanitarian efforts on behalf of those who suffer severe health consequences from the tragedy. i was honored to receive the children of chornobyl's relief fund lifetime humanitarian achievement award in 1999 for my work in helping to improve the health of women and children in ukraine. as senator i traveled to ukraine in 2005 and met with president yushchenko and offered the u.s. government's support for reform efforts to strengthen ukraine's democracy. </p><p>the united states has always favored the closest possible ties between nato and ukraine, including the creation of the nato-ukraine council. we have always insisted on an open door policy for european democracies that want to join the alliance. the enlargement of nato is not directed against any state; nato does not see any nation as its enemy. i pledge to support ukraine's efforts to meet the criteria for map and eventual membership. the united states should actively encourage our nato allies to deepen their own ties with ukraine, a country that has broken with an authoritarian past and pursues good relations with all its neighbors. ukraine deserves a chance to pursue its aspirations for a wider role in the euro-atlantic community. in the same spirit, i call on the bush administration to give ukraine all the support it needs to complete its accession to the world trade organization. </p><p>as president, i will ensure that the united states does everything necessary to help ukraine realize these important and achievable goals.</p></span>



