<span class="displaytext">i am pleased to join the united nations in recognizing the inaugural world autism awareness day. today offers us the opportunity to reaffirm a commitment to addressing the need for increased treatment, services, and research into autism spectrum disorders. <p>in the united states and other countries, we have seen a rise in the number of individuals diagnosed with autism. throughout my time in public service, i have met with families who have shared their experiences in dealing with autism, and trying to seek the best possible care for their loved ones with the disorder. currently, the centers for disease control and prevention estimates that 1 in 150 children in the united states has an autism spectrum disorder. in order to respond to these increases, we need to have a commensurate investment in services and programs for individuals with autism and other developmental disabilities. i also believe that we should increase our efforts to research autism, so that we better understand the causes and the best treatments for this condition. </p><p>in november, i announced a comprehensive plan to address autism. my plan provides nearly $1 billion over five years for autism research, surveillance, awareness, and early identification. i will create an autism task force charged with investigating evidence-based treatments, interventions, and services. we need to know what works and start investing in those efforts. i will also expand access to post-diagnosis care so that once children have been identified as autistic, they receive appropriate evidence-based treatment immediately. no child should experience a delay in receiving services that can improve his or her quality of life. but too often today, children are forced to wait for months for care. i'll also provide funding to school districts and universities to train teachers and other health and social services professionals in how to work most effectively with autistic children, since the number of children with autism in our public schools has skyrocketed in recent years. i'll make sure every young person has a transition plan before they leave high school. i will also ensure that both children and adults with autism have access to the services they need - including housing, transportation, employment - to live rich and full lives. in all, i will commit $500 million annually to provide services to improve the quality of life for all people living with autism. </p><p>this plan builds on my work in the senate to help individuals and families impacted by autism. last year, i introduced the expanding the promise for individuals with autism act, which would increase the availability of effective treatment, services and interventions for both children and adults living with autism. i was also a cosponsor of the combating autism act, and have worked to secure funding for the research programs authorized by that act. </p><p>i hope that today's commemoration will once again allow us to highlight the needs of children, adults, and families impacted by autism, and i look forward to working to continue to raise awareness about autism spectrum disorders.</p></span>



