<span class="displaytext">influential filmmaker and philanthropist steven spielberg today announced that he is officially endorsing (candidate full) for president. spielberg said that he has chosen to endorse (candidate last) because of her experience and strength. <p>"i've taken the time to familiarize myself with the impressive field of (PARTY NAME) candidates and am convinced that (candidate full) is the most qualified candidate to lead us from her first day in the white house," spielberg said. "hillary is a strong leader and is respected the world over. as president, she will bring america back together, rebuild our prestige abroad and ensure our protection here at home." </p><p>in addition to his innumerable cinematic achievements, spielberg has devoted his time and resources to many philanthropic causes. the impact of his experience making schindler's list," led him to establish the righteous persons foundation using all his profits from the film. he also founded survivors of the shoah visual history foundation, which has recorded more than 52,000 holocaust survivor testimonies. spielberg executive produced "the last days," the shoah foundation's third documentary, which won the academy award in 1999 for best documentary feature. in 2005, the foundation's repository of testimonies was transferred to the university of southern california. the new usc shoah foundation institute for visual history and education is dedicated to research and scholarship in the humanities and social sciences. in addition, spielberg is the chairman emeritus of the starlight starbright children's foundation, which combines the efforts of pediatric health care, technology and entertainment to empower seriously ill children. </p><p>spielberg is a principal partner of dreamworks studios, responsible for some of the most honored films in recent years, including three consecutive best picture academy award winners: "american beauty," "gladiator," and "a beautiful mind" (the latter two co-productions with universal). one of the industry's most successful and influential filmmakers, spielberg has directed, produced, or executive produced some of the top-grossing films of all time, including "jurassic park" and "e.t. the extra-terrestrial." among his myriad honors, he is a three-time academy award winner, earning two oscars for best director and best picture for "schindler's list," and a third oscar for best director for "saving private ryan."</p></span>



