<span class="displaytext">the (candidate last) campaign today announced the endorsement of nevada assemblyman william horne. <p>"senator (candidate last) is the most qualified candidate in this exceptional field," said horne. "she could walk into the oval office today and immediately begin the work of setting our country in the right direction. she has a clear vision for the future, and has her finger on the pulse of the most critical issues we face. most of nevada's families are working families – and senator (candidate last) has throughout her career fought to make sure working families can meet their needs. they are concerned about how to afford their house payments and their health care – with saving money for their children's education, and for retirement. i know that hillary will prioritize these issues that are so critical to nevadans, and to all americans." </p><p>first elected to the nevada assembly in 2002, horne has served the residents of district 34 through three regular sessions and four special sessions of the legislature. currently the assistant majority whip, horne has also served as a member of the nevada commission on homeland security and as chair of the subcommittee to study sentencing and pardons, parole and probation. he also served as the vice chair of the assembly judiciary committee during the 2005 and 2007 legislative sessions. he was named by his colleagues as outstanding freshman assemblyman in 2003, and selected as one of the assembly's top five most effective legislators in 2005. </p><p>growing up in an air force family, horne was raised to value service to country and community. a graduate of the william s. boyd school of law at the university of nevada, las vegas, horne operates an independent law practice in southern nevada. he is a member of the african american (PARTY NAME) leadership council, the national black caucus of state legislators and the nevada black elected officials caucus. in addition, he serves on the advisory board of bridge counseling associates, and is a member of the phi alpha delta international law fraternity. he is an adjunct professor at the university of nevada, las vegas, where he also serves on the advisory board for the greenspun college of urban affairs.</p></span>



