<span class="displaytext">the (candidate last) campaign today announced the endorsement of long-time carson city supervisor robin williamson. supervisor williamson will work with the campaign to mobilize carson city residents to caucus for senator (candidate last) in january. <p>"it is my pleasure to endorse senator (candidate full) as the (PARTY NAME) candidate for president of the united states," said supervisor williamson. "she is an intelligent, articulate, and effective leader who can meet our national and international challenges. i am currently serving on the carson city board of supervisors, a nonpartisan office, and i value the ability to work with people of all political parties to achieve results for our community, our state and our country. i feel senator (candidate last) has demonstrated this ability to bring groups together to get things done. we have serious issues facing our nation and i think senator (candidate last) has the experience and the initiative to start dialogues and find solutions." </p><p>robin williamson has lived in carson city since 1990. she was one of the first members of the open space advisory committee and has been active in local ptas, the carson tahoe hospital auxiliary, american youth soccer organization, capital soccer club, and the carson high school soccer booster club. robin is married to phil williamson, and they have three daughters. she was elected to be a carson city supervisor in november 1998, and now serves as chairman of the carson city redevelopment agency, is on the nevada association of counties executive board, the carson water subconservancy district, the western nevada college foundation and co-chair of the wnc athletic development committee. in addition, supervisor williamson is president of the c hill flag foundation and she is working to create the chinese worker's museum in carson city. </p><p>"robin is a proven leader and well respected member of the carson city community," said (candidate last) nevada chair rory reid. "her service and tireless advocacy on behalf of carson city residents is matched by a strong commitment to our state. the campaign will benefit from her experience and insight on many of nevada's most pressing issues. we look forward to working with her to spread senators (candidate last)'s message of change, in carson city and throughout the state."</p></span>



