<span class="displaytext">chicago, il - yesterday, russian military officials announced that the withdrawal of russian military forces from undisputed georgian territory was complete. russian commanders claim to be implementing the ceasefire agreement of august 16, 2008, signed by russian president dmitri medvedev and georgian president mikheil saakashvili, committing russia to withdraw all military forces sent into georgia after the 7th of august. <p>despite this claim, russian forces continue to occupy strategic locations, checkpoints, and military sites outside the disputed regions of south ossetia and abkhazia. russian officials call the troops violating the terms of last week's ceasefire "peacekeepers." the truth is, they are occupation forces controlling georgian territory in violation of russia's obligations under international law. </p><p>the international community must keep up the pressure to achieve full russian compliance with the terms of the agreement. accordingly, we must establish a strong and effective system to monitor this critical issue. the readiness of the osce to send a larger group of monitors back to the conflict zone next week is a step in the right direction, but far short of what the situation requires. </p><p>this crisis is far from over. russian political figures are suggesting that on monday they may begin the process of recognizing the independence of secessionist regions of georgia - and perhaps of annexing them to russia. this war has already opened a huge divide between russia and the international community. russia should not take additional steps that will make this divide deeper and more lasting. </p><p>the united states and europe should immediately commit the resources necessary to rebuild georgia's economy and restore its ability to manage its security. but that too is not enough. the world must make clear that acts of aggression such as the invasion of georgia are costly and consequential. russia's unwillingness to fully and honorably implement its commitments as outlined in the ceasefire will call into question russia's ability to play a role as a responsible global power and partner across a broad range of issues on which russia seeks international cooperation, including investment, trade, and security cooperation. these interests are too important for russia to risk. rather than continue to fuel doubts about russia's credibility, the russian government must begin to repair its reputation by fully implementing the ceasefire agreement and respecting the territorial integrity and sovereignty of georgia.</p></span>



