<span class="displaytext">chicago, il - "i am deeply concerned by the ongoing crisis in zimbabwe. since the elections on march 29, the ruling party has failed to release the results of the presidential election, refused to heed the will of the people of zimbabwe, and engaged in an unacceptable campaign of repression and intimidation. instead of the change that the people of zimbabwe voted for, we've seen opposition and civil society offices raided, opposition supporters sent to torture camps, and communities turned into "no go zones" while the ruling party unleashes brutality without restraint. <p>the united states must join with the international community in responding decisively to this crisis. there should be an international arms embargo on zimbabwe to deny the government tools that it could use to target its own people. china appropriately called back a shipment of arms to zimbabwe, and the u.s. and others should continue to press the chinese government to play a constructive role. </p><p>the united states should encourage the south african development community (sadc), the african union (au), and the un security council to join together in condemning the current crackdown. un secretary general ban ki-moon and african national congress leader jacob zuma have rightly declared that the situation in zimbabwe is unacceptable. now is the time for the international community to stand united in making it clear to president mugabe that a fraudulent runoff election is unacceptable. finally, the u.s. must stand ready to support efforts to hold the perpetrators of human rights abuses accountable for their actions. </p><p>the people of zimbabwe deserve a brighter future. the united states must work with the sadc, international donors, and zimbabweans to marshal the resources necessary to help zimbabwe recover from years of disastrous and repressive governance once it has a government that is prepared to undertake critical reforms. it is time for the (PARTY NAME) aspirations of the people of zimbabwe to be realized, and for the world to help a long-suffering country get back on its feet and become part of a more (PARTY NAME) and prosperous southern africa."</p></span>



