<span class="displaytext">washington — the national air traffic controllers association (natca) today endorsed (candidate full) as the president this country needs to restore accountability and fairness in the federal aviation administration, reverse a disturbing trend of serious aviation safety concerns and lead an expedited effort to modernize our air traffic control system to cut flight delays and strengthen our economy. <p>"we feel extremely proud and excited to throw our complete support behind senator (candidate last) as we look ahead to the most important presidential election in the history of this nation's aviation system and certainly the most important for the air traffic controllers," natca president patrick forrey said. "this is a controller workforce in crisis due to the failed management of the faa and its actions to demoralize and punish its employees. we need a president who will restore collaboration between controllers and the agency and recognize that a strong, fully-staffed, well-trained, respected and motivated controller workforce is essential in ensuring the safety of the traveling public. senator (candidate last) will be that president." </p><p>two years ago, senator (candidate last) introduced the "faa fair labor management dispute resolution act of 2006" in an effort to replace the faa's extraordinary and arbitrary authority to impose wages and working conditions on its workers with neutral binding arbitration in the case of an impasse in labor-management negotiations, something controllers still seek today after having had work and pay rules imposed on them by the faa on labor day 2006. </p><p>said senator (candidate last) upon introducing that legislation in 2006: "i looked into it and came to the conclusion that if we did not restore a fair negotiation procedure, it would threaten agency morale and effectiveness. (the faa's authority) denies air traffic controllers and all other faa employees the opportunity to engage in and conclude negotiations in good faith." </p><p>"i want to thank the highly skilled and dedicated men and women who ensure that americans are safe when they're on board an aircraft and i am grateful for their support," said senator (candidate last) today. "as president, natca will have a partner in the white house. together, we can fix our nation's aviation system and tackle the challenges we face — from the damaging effect flight delays have on our lives and our economy to recent safety concerns. i applaud the work that natca does day in and day out to strengthen our aviation system and keep americans safe, and i look forward to working with its members going forward."</p></span>



