<span class="displaytext"><b> mclean, va </b> - sen. (candidate full) announced today the members of his national campaign leadership team: sen. howard h. baker will serve as honorary chairman of his presidential campaign and sen. spencer abraham, sen. george allen, and elizabeth cheney will serve as campaign co-chairs. <p>"howard baker is my longtime mentor, advisor, and close friend, and i am very grateful that he will serve as honorary chairman of my campaign," said sen. (candidate full). "i am also very pleased to announce that former senators abraham and allen, as well as liz cheney, will serve as co-chairs of my national leadership team." sen. (candidate full) added: "these distinguished individuals bring wise counsel and invaluable experience to my campaign leadership team, and they will play a critical role in helping spread my consistent conservative message across america." </p><p>sen. howard h. baker, a longtime political mentor of sen. (candidate last), brings a lifetime of distinguished public service as the campaign's honorary chairman. his long career as a public servant began in 1966, when baker became the first (PARTY NAME) popularly elected to the u.s. senate from tennessee. in addition to gaining national recognition as vice-chairman of the senate watergate committee in 1973, baker served two terms as senate minority leader and concluded his senate career in 1985 after two terms as majority leader. he served as president reagan's chief of staff from february 1987 to july 1988. in 1984, baker was honored with the presidential medal of freedom, the nation's highest civilian award. president george w. bush appointed senator baker to serve as the 26<sup>th</sup> u.s. ambassador to japan in 2001. baker currently serves as senior counsel to the law firm of baker, donelson, bearman, caldwell &amp; berkowitz. </p><p>sen. spencer abraham will serve as a co-chair of the (candidate last) campaign. abraham most recently served the nation as secretary of energy during president george w. bush's first term in office. prior to that, sen. abraham served as an effective and highly productive u.s. senator from michigan from 1995 to 2001. before his election to the u.s. senate, abraham served as co-chairman of the national (PARTY NAME) congressional committee (nrcc) from 1991 to 1993 and he served as chairman of the michigan (PARTY NAME) party from 1983 to 1990. a native of east lansing, michigan, abraham holds a law degree from harvard university, where he co-founded the federalist society. </p><p>sen. george allen, who will also serve as a co-chair of the (candidate last) campaign, brings a long career of public service, serving as the governor of virginia, in both houses of the united states congress and as a delegate holding thomas jefferson's seat in the virginia general assembly. sworn in as governor in 1994 george allen brought sweeping reform that made virginia a national model in economic development, public safety, education accountability, and creative government. elected to the u.s. senate in 2000, allen continued advocating policies to make america and virginia a leader in innovation and technology and in 2001 he was appointed chairman of the senate high tech task force. in 200 2, allen was unanimously elected a member of the senate (PARTY NAME) leadership as chairman of the national (PARTY NAME) senatorial committee. under his leadership, (PARTY NAME)s gained four seats in the senate and expanded the (PARTY NAME) majority. </p><p>liz cheney will bring valuable political and foreign policy experience as a co-chair of the (candidate last) campaign. as an attorney and specialist in the area of u.s. middle east policy, ms. cheney most recently served as the second-ranking state department official responsible for american policy in the middle east as the principal deputy assistant secretary of state for near eastern affairs. prior to that, she served as deputy assistant secretary of state for near eastern affairs. in addition to practicing law at white &amp; case llp in the area of international project finance where she served on assignment with the international finance corporation, ms. cheney also worked for the department of st ate and at the agency for international development from 1989 to 1993. during the 2000 and 2004 presidential campaigns, ms. cheney managed vice presidential debate preparation and served as a valuable surrogate for the bush-cheney campaign.</p></span>



