<span class="displaytext">but he does a great job. he goes to iraq, helps the iraqi people with the rule of law and i'm proud of senator lindsay graham of south carolina. you know, political courage is not a, a bit of a scarce commodity and i'm very proud and grateful that a person who came across the aisle in an incredible act of political courage and supported my candidacy when it mattered the most, a truly great american, senator joe lieberman and his wife. you know, it's funny. we got joe the plumber, joe lieberman. that's great. and then we got joe the (candidate last). well, you can't be perfect, my friends. and could i mention my 96-year-old mother who has more energy that anybody in this room, roberta (candidate last). a couple of christmases ago, she wanted to drive around france, so she flew to paris. she wanted to rent a car, they said she was too old, so she bought one. when anybody ever asks anything about my age, i always introduce them to my mother. i'm so grateful you're here. my son, doug, and his wife are here. i want to thank all of you. <p>i feel the momentum. i feel it and you feel it and we're going to win this election. we're going to win it and we're going to -- we're going to win it right here in the state of colorado. and i bring greetings, i bring greetings from the great governor of the state of alaska, sarah palin, whose ignited this campaign, who has done an incredible job. she's got a husband whose name is todd. she calls him first dude. her husband todd is a four-time world champion in a snow mobile race across alaska in the middle of the winter. one time, he was running this race, broke his arm with 250 miles to go and still won. </p><p>i think he's ready for washington, dc. and so is she. don't you think? now, i'd like to thank all the veterans who are here. would you raise your hands so we can say thank you for your service? thank you very much. thank you. air force brat for (candidate last). thank you. and here is two special people marine girlfriend for (candidate last) and army girlfriend for (candidate last). thank you. military moms for (candidate last). thank you. i want to say thank you again, i want to say it's great to get a turnout today. </p><p>we've got to turnout our vote and we're going to be up late tonight. and you know, some of the the pundits have written us off, they may not know it, but the mac is back. with your help, we're going to take america in a new direction. get out there and vote. i need your help. volunteer. knock on doors, get your neighbors to the polls, drag them there if you need to. we're going to bring real change to washington and we have to fight for it! </p><p>so, my friends, you know, you know that i've been fighting for this country since i was 17 years old and it's been the honor of my life and i've never lived a day, in good times or bad, that i didn't thank god for the privilege of serving the united states of america. i owe this country more than it will ever owe me. and i promise you if i'm elected president, i will never let you down. i'll fight to shake up washington and take america in a new direction from my first day in office until my last. i'm not afraid of the fight, i'm ready for the fight! </p><p>and we're going to cut taxes for working families and we'll cut business taxes to help create jobs and keep american businesses in america. we're going to get the spending in washington under control. i'm going to make government live on a budget just like you do! and i'll veto every single pork barrel bill that comes across my desk! you will know their names, i'll make them famous. and we're going to make sure we take care of the working people who were devastated by the excesses and greed and corruption of wall street and washington. my friends, we have to fix our housing market. </p><p>we've got to get home values up. keep people in their homes. that's the american dream. i'm going to protect it. we'll keep people in their homes! my friends, we're going to protect people's retirement. don't be afraid of the scare tactics that get trotted out every four years. they try to scare seniors. i was there when we fixed social security and i'm going to be there when we fix it again. i'm going to protect social security. i'm going to protect medicare and i'm not going to let washington tax away your retirement savings. and my friends, if i'm elected president, when i'm elected president -- we're going to stop spending $700 billion to buy oil from countries that don't like us very much. we will invest in every energy alternative, wind, solar, tide, hybrid cars, clean coal technology! safe nuclear power and offshore drilling, when i'm president, we will drill offshore and we will drill now! i think we ought to, we ought to hear it one more time. drill, baby, drill. and we will. and we will, my friends. </p><p>if we're going to change washington, we need a president who can make it happen. i've been fighting for change in washington my whole career and i wasn't elected miss congeniality because of it. the next president won't have time to learn how to change washington or get used to the office. america faces many challenges at home and there are many enemies abroad in this world. today, we elect a commander in chief to lead this nation. i know how to deal with our enemies and i know how to deal with our friends. you know, there's be a lot of talk recently about the tests the next president will face. my friends, i've been tested and i've passed the test. </p><p>when many of both parties wanted to retreat in iraq, i said no, i'd rather lose an election than lose a war. today, because of the surge strategy, because of a great general named petraeus, because of the brave men and women serving in uniform, the best of all of us, the best of america, we are succeeding in iraq, we will succeed in afghanistan and when i'm president, our troops will come home with honor and victory, not in defeat! let me give you a little straight talk about the election today. i know you're worried. america's a great country. we're in a moment of national crisis that will determine our future. let me ask you: will we continue to lead the world's economies or be over taken? will the world become safer or more dangerous? will our military remain the strongest in the world and will our children and grandchildren's future be brighter than ours? my answer to you is yes! yes, we will lead. yes, we will prosper. yes, we will be safer. yes, we will pass on to our children, a stronger, better country. but we must be prepared to act swiftly, boldly, with courage and wisdom! i'm an american and i choose to fight! don't give up hope! be strong! have courage and fight! fight for a new direction for our country! </p><p>fight for what's right for america. fight to clean up the mess of corruption. fight to get our economy out of the ditch and back in the lead. fight for the ideas and character of a free people. fight for our children's future. fight for justice and opportunity for all. stand up to defend our country from its enemies. stand up, stand up, stand up and fight! america is worth fighting for! nothing is inevitable here! we never give up, we never quit, we never hide from history. we make history! now, let's go win this election and get this country moving again! let's go, colorado! god bless you, god bless the united states of america. thank you for being here today!</p></span>



