<span class="displaytext">centennial, co -- today the (candidate last)-palin campaign announced the endorsement of eduardo verastegui, one of today's fastest rising latino stars. best known for his starring roles in the 2006 movie bella and other mexican soap operas, verastegui was voted by people en espaol as one of the "50 most beautiful people" in the world. he has made appearances in the popular tv series, charmed, as mr. right, and in jennifer lopez's "ain't it funny" video and her new perfume commercials. <p>"(candidate full) is the only candidate for president that shares my values of life," verastegui said. "he truly recognizes that we are all god's children. (candidate full) is someone we can trust to do what is right and follow through on what he says -- as opposed to (candidate full), who does not share our traditional values of defending innocent life and the sanctity of marriage. (candidate last) has proven this time and time again. during his personal experience as a pow in vietnam, (candidate last) renewed and strengthened his faith. and early this year in the heat of a political battle, he had the courage to stand against his own party and support comprehensive immigration reform. his resolve serves as a reminder to us all that we must vote our values and our conscience, and not vote simply by party. we can't afford a president who lacks experience and judgment and would stand for values that are out of step with the hispanic community and this country. although i seldom thrust myself into political campaigns, i recognize the stakes and that it's most important that we put our values first and support (candidate full)." </p><p>a devout catholic who attends mass daily, he will talk about his values and announce his endorsement of (candidate full) during his values tour through the state. he will also hold a series of private events and meetings to drum up support for (candidate full) and sarah palin in the hispanic and faith based communities.</p></span>



