<span class="displaytext">mayor (candidate last): "[general petraeus] and our military have had more success than the (PARTY NAME) ever expected and now what they're resorting to is really very disturbing. you have this moveon.org organization, this (PARTY NAME) organization that has spent hundreds of millions of dollars trying to malign the president and (PARTY NAME)s. now they're maligning general petraeus with this ad that they've put money into, about general petraeus and taking his name and saying general betray us. <p>"and instead of the (PARTY NAME) standing up and saying that this is just wrong, it's wrong to impugn the integrity of an american commander in a time of war who is putting his life at risk for this country, we have the (PARTY NAME), in essence, creating their own questions. i'll read to you what (candidate full) said yesterday. she said, 'i think the reports that you provide to us,' speaking to general petraeus, 'really require the willing suspension of disbelief.' now i don't know exactly what hillary rodham (candidate last) meant by the willing suspension of disbelief on behalf of an american general. but i tend to think the american people kind of think politicians do that more than generals—the willing suspension of disbelief. </p><p>"and i really think we have a right to expect of our presidential candidates, even if they have this great desire to be president, more statesmanship than accusing american generals of the willing suspension of disbelief, just because they come to a conclusion that maybe you thought wasn't possible. i know there are (PARTY NAME) in the house that say, you know, the surge being successful would be a problem for the (PARTY NAME) party. well, that's one thing and i think that's wrong. and i think what moveon.org did was wrong. but i think what (candidate full) did here, accusing general petraeus of a willing suspension of disbelief when--you can disagree with general petraeus but you can do it without this kind of name calling …"</p></span>



